dev/email plugin docs update (#872)
strapi/documentation: docs/developer-docs/latest/plugins/email.md

::: prerequisites

The Email plugin requires a provider and a provider configuration in the `plugins.js` file. See the[ Using providers](/developer-docs/latest/development/using-providers.md) documentation for detailed installation and configuration instructions. <!--NOTE: update name/link to match final Providers page name/link-->

:::

::: note
[`Sendmail`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sendmail) is the default email provider in the Strapi Email plugin. It provides functionality for the local development environment but is not production-ready in the default configuration. For production stage applications you need to further configure `Sendmail` or change providers. The [Using providers ](/developer-docs/latest/development/using-providers.md)documentation has instructions for changing providers, configuring providers, and creating a new email provider.
:::

## Sending emails with a controller or service

> The functions `send()` and `sendTemplatedEmail()` are available to send emails. The `send()` function directly contains the email contents, while the `sendTemplatedEmail()` function consumes data from the Content Manager to populate emails, streamlining programmatic emails.

Reviewer: Suggestion: I would add a little more context, and use a bullet list. IMHO the cleaner, the lighter the text content and presentation is, the easier you can read and understand.

```suggestion
The Email plugin comes with an `email` [service](/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/services.md#services) that includes/offers/provides 2 functions to send emails:
* `send()` directly contains the email contents, 
* `sendTemplatedEmail()` consumes data from the Content Manager to populate emails, streamlining programmatic emails.
```

### Using the `send()` function

> To trigger an email in response to a user action add the following function to a [controller](/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/controllers.md) or [service](/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/services.md).

Author: table added. and sentence added to the paragraph.

  }),
```

### Using the `sendTemplatedEmail()` function

The `sendTemplatedEmail()` is used to compose emails from a template. The function compiles the email from the available properties and then sends the email. To use the `sendTemplatedEmail()` function, define the `emailTemplate` object and add the function to a controller or service. The function calls the `emailTemplate` object, and can optionally call the `emailOptions` and `data` objects.

| Parameter       | Description                                                                                                                                | Type     | Default |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `emailOptions`  | Contains email addressing properties: `to`, `from`, `replyTo`, `cc`, and `bcc`                                                             | `object` | { }      |
| `emailTemplate` | Contains email content properties: `subject`, `text`, and `html` using [Lodash string templates](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#template) | `object` | { }      |

> | `data`          | Contains the data used to compile the templates                                                                                            | `object` | { }      |

Reviewer: `data` seems optional (I can't find it in the code example, maybe I misunderstood something 🤔) so I think you can mention it in the table (e.g. "`data`<br/>(_optional_)" 
The intro paragraph implies that emailOptions is optional as well, but is it? I'm trying to figure out how the email is sent if neither `to` or `from` parameters are defined (just an open question) 🤔

Author: Added "optional" to the table. 

I think the answer is because you can also hard code the email address information. Here the source code, which as I understand, only throws an error is `emailTemplate` is not supplied. 

```const sendTemplatedEmail = (emailOptions = {}, emailTemplate = {}, data = {}) => {
  const attributes = ['subject', 'text', 'html'];
  const missingAttributes = _.difference(attributes, Object.keys(emailTemplate));
  if (missingAttributes.length > 0) {
    throw new Error(
      `Following attributes are missing from your email template : ${missingAttributes.join(', ')}`
    );
  }```

# Email

> The Email plugin enables applications to send emails from a server or [external providers](/developer-docs/latest/development/using-providers.md). Successful use of the plugin requires a provider configuration in a `plugins.js` file and an event that triggers an email, such as a custom controller for external requests or a lifecycle hook for requests inside the admin panel. Data from the Content Manager can also be populated into email templates using the function `sendTemplatedEmail` to streamline programmatic emails. This documentation provides examples of how to use the email plugin to send emails using controllers and lifecycle hooks.

Author: - fixed the last point
- added a prerequisites callout
- the intro is rewritten

> [`Sendmail`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sendmail) is the default email provider in the Strapi email plugin. It provides functionality for the local development environment but is not production-ready in the provided configuration. Another provider is likely preferable. The [provider documentation](/developer-docs/latest/development/using-providers.md) has instructions for changing providers, creating a new email provider, and configuring the `plugins.js` file.

Author: (1) I added a callout
(2) I revised this text
(3) I agree, but from the comments on the relevant PR, the name was not certain as of when I wrote this section.

> ## Send an email using custom a controller or service

Author: thanks for catching this. Actually, I wanted to delete the word "custom"

> To trigger an email in response to a user action add the following function to a [controller](/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/controllers.md) or [service](/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/services.md). The function utilizes the email provider enabled in the `plugins.js` configuration file. The function can be used by extending a core controller/service or developing a custom controller/service.

Author: I reduced the size and scope of this section. Documentation about controllers and services is in the back-end customization section. It is not appropriate to repeat that documentation here.

```js

//path: ./src/api/{api name}/controllers/{api name}.js

  await strapi.plugins['email'].services.email.send({
    to: 'valid email address',
    from: 'your verified email address', //e.g. single sender verification in SendGrid
    cc: 'valid email address',
    bcc: 'valid email address',
    replyTo: 'valid email address',
    subject: 'The Strapi email plugin worked successfully',
    text: 'Hello world!',
    html: 'Hello world!',

>   }),

Author: no. I addressed this in the introduction. The email service uses the global api. There is no difference between the function for services or controllers.

```

## Send an email using a template

> The email plugin provides the function `sendTemplatedEmail` to compose emails from a template. The function compiles the email from the available properties and then sends the email. The function has the following parameters:

Author: ok added break

| Parameter       | Description                                                                                                                                | Type     | Default |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------|---------|
| `emailOptions`  | Contains email addressing properties: `to`, `from`, `replyTo`, `cc`, and `bcc`                                                             | `object` | {}      |
| `emailTemplate` | Contains email content properties: `subject`, `text`, and `html` using [Lodash string templates](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.15#template) | `object` | {}      |
| `data`          | Contains the data used to compile the templates                                                                                            | `object` | {}      |

> To use the `sendTemplatedEmail` function define the `emailTemplate` object and add the function to a controller or service. The function calls the `emailTemplate` object, and can optionally call the `emailOptions` and `data` objects.

Author: fixed

```js

> //path: ./src/api/{api name}/controllers/{api name}.js

Author: fixed

const emailTemplate = {
  subject: 'Welcome <%= user.firstname %>',
  text: `Welcome to mywebsite.fr!
    Your account is now linked with: <%= user.email %>.`,
  html: `<h1>Welcome to mywebsite.fr!</h1>
    <p>Your account is now linked with: <%= user.email %>.<p>`,
};

await strapi.plugins['email'].services.email.sendTemplatedEmail(
  {
    to: user.email,
    // from: is not specified, the defaultFrom is used.
  },
    emailTemplate,
  {
    user: _.pick(user, ['username', 'email', 'firstname', 'lastname']),
  }
);
```

## Send an email using a lifecycle hook

> [Lifecycle hooks](/developer-docs/latest/development/backend-customization/models.md#lifecycle-hooks) can be used to trigger an email based on administrator actions in the admin panel. For example, an editor can receive an email each time an author creates a new content entry in the Content Manager. The following code example illustrates a lifecycle hook that runs when a new entry is created in the specified collection type.

Author: I revised this section based on feedback from both @meganelacheny + @pwizla. Some of the feedback was in apparent contradiction so I tried to find the best solution.
